# ADR 001: Multi-Database Tenancy

## Status

Accepted - 2024-01-02

## Context

As part of providing a Saas-application scaffold, Nexus needs to provide a User Interface and API 
for managing tenants and tenant environments. This is how data will be input or exported from the
application, as well as how tenant subscriptions will be managed. 

## Decision

Nexus will make use of the latest version of Filament, which is a Laravel Admin Panel. 

## Consequences

Nexus will lose some flexibility in terms of how data is displayed to users. This is an acceptable
trade-off as it will allow us to focus on the core functionality of the application, and Filament
is a highly extensible framework which will allow us to customize a significant portion of the UI.

## Alternatives Considered

- Single Database, Shared Schema: The simplest solution offers minimal data isolation and a much more complex
  migration story. Developers need to be mindful of query scoping, ensuring that they don't accidentally leak data.
  In this approach, all data is stored in the same tables, but with a `tenant_id` column to scope the data.
 
- Single Database, Separate Schema: Each tenant has its own schema, which improves data isolation. Queries can
  join against multiple schema, so global reporting is somewhat streamlined. However, the migration story is still
  complex as both the database (objects) and schema need to migrated to another server if we're moving a tenant. 

## Related Decisions

None

## References

[TenancyForLaravel](https://tenancyforlaravel.com/)
